MetaModel: A Machine Learning Model for Ruddlesden-	Popper and Dion-Jacobson 2D Lead Halide Perovskite
Two-dimensional (2D) lead halide perovskites (LHPs) have captured a range of interest for the advancement of state-of-the-art optoelectronic devices, highly efficient solar cells, and next-generation energy harvesting technologies owing to their hydrophobic nature, layered configuration, and remarkable chemical/environmental stabilities. These 2D LHPs have been categorized into the Dion-Jacobson (DJ) and Ruddlesden-Popper (RP) systems based on their layered configuration respectively. To classify and develop the RP and DJ phases efficiently from the synthetic perspective and to reduce the effect of the trial/error method, machine learning (ML) techniques need to develop. Herein, this work addresses the identification of RP and DJ phases of 2D LHPs in efficient way by implementing various ML models. ML models were trained on 264 experimentally available dataset, 10-fold stratified cross-validation, hyperparameter optimization technique with Optuna and Shapley Additive Explanations (SHAP) were employed. Among the ML models, stacking classifier efficiently classified RP and DJ phases using a two-layer approach, all with finely tuned hyperparameters obtained through Optuna and presented remarkable performance with a minimal variation between the sensitivity and specificity. Also, it achieved a high Balance Accuracy (BA) of (0.83) on independent test dataset therefore considered as the optimal model in the study. Our best model tested on 17 hybrid 2D LHPs and three experimental synthesized organic amines shows strong alignment between experimental outcomes and predictions, a significant advance in cutting edge ML models. Thus, this proposed study has unlocked a new route towards the rational classification of RP and DJ phases of 2D LHPs.
